In this video, you'll learn
about member references,
and we'll discuss what
is the difference
between bound and
unbound references.
Like Java, Kotlin has
member references,
which can replace
simple Lambdas that only
call a member function or
return a member property,
it can convert Lambda to
member reference automatically
when it's possible.
The syntax for member reference
is the same as in Java.
First goes the class name,
then the double colon, then
the member which we refer.
As we've previously
discussed in Kotlin,
you can store Lambda
in a variable,
however, you can't store
a function in a variable.
It's not like in
a truly functional language
where each function
is a variable.
No, in Kotlin there is
a clear distinction between
functions and variables,
that are connected with how
JVM works under the hood.
If you try to assign
a function to a variable,
you'll get a compiler error.
To fix this issue,
use the function
reference syntax.
Function references allow
you to store a reference to
any defined function in
a variable to be able
to store it and qualitative it.
Keep in mind that this syntax is
just another way to call
a function inside the Lambda,
underlying implementation
are the same.
Here, the full
analogous syntax is
a Lambda that only
calls isEven function.
If a referred member
is a property,
or it's a function that
takes zero or one argument,
then member reference
syntax isn't that
concise in comparison with
the explicit Lambda syntax.
However, if
the referred function
takes several arguments,
you have to repeat
all the parameter names
as Lambda parameters,
and then explicitly
pass them through,
that makes this syntax robust.
Member references allow you
to hide all the parameters,
because the compiler
infers the types for you.
You can pass a function
reference as an argument,
whenever your Lambda
tends to grow too
large and to become
too complicated,
it makes sense to extract
Lambda code into
a separate function,
then you use a reference to
this function instead
of a huge Lambda.
Now, I want to highlight
the difference
between bound and
non-bound references.
In Kotlin, you can create
a boundary reference,
let's us discuss what it is.
In this example, we use
a regular non-bound reference,
which refers to a member
of the person class.
If we check what type
this member reference has,
we see that the first argument
of the function type is person.
Whenever we want to call
this variable or function type,
we need to pass the person
instance explicitly.
If we look under
the hood and check
what Lambda does correspond
to this member reference,
we'll find that this Lambda
takes two arguments,
person and age limit,
it simply calls
the member function is
older inside on
the passed person element.
This reference is
called non bound,
since it's not bound to
any specific instance,
you can call it on any object
of the person class.
Bound reference is
a member reference that
is attached to a specific
instance of the class.
Here, the alice variable
is an instance of
the class person,
and you can bound member efforts
to this specific instance.
If we look at the type of
the bound member reference,
we see that now
there is no person
parameter because the person
instance is already set,
the older function takes
int as a parameter,
and the bound reference also
expect only int as an argument.
If we check which Lambda
corresponds to this member
reference to the hood,
we'll find the Lambda that calls
the member isOlder on
the bound instance.
In this case, this bound
instance is Alice variable.
Member reference can be
bound to this reference.
Here, we'll return a
predicate directly
from the class person.
This predicate is
a member reference
to isOlder function,
that this is the object of
which this member
reference is bound to,
and is usual for
this we can emit it.
Now, we have
this nice short syntax
without left-hand side,
just reference to the member.
To make sure you understand it,
answer the question, what is
the type of this member
reference here?
We have two options,
either taking person or
without person as an argument.
The right answer
is the second one,
it is a bound reference which
stores the person of
this instance inside,
the reference will always be
bound to a specific instance
of the person class.
We can call getAgePredicate
only at the specific instance,
which becomes the bound object
for member reference.
Now the question for you, is
isEven in this example
a bound reference or not?
Yes or no are
the possible answers.
The answer is no,
because here it's
just a reference
to a top-level function.
There is no stored object
in which this function
is bound to.
Whenever you see the banks and
reference without
the left-hand side,
it's either a reference to
a top-level function
or a bound reference.
In IDE you can always navigate and
see which faction that this
function reference refers to,
it's very convenient.
Now you can use both bound
and unbound references
in your code.
Bound reference store the object
on which the member
can delay to called,
while I'm might be called on
any object of a given type.
Next, we are going to demystify
one of the common puzzler
which may occur if you use
return expression
inside a Lambda.